---
title: Macrostrat
topics: [macrostrat, lithostratigraphy, chronostratigraphy]
status: draft
contributors: []
last_modified_at: 2025-07-21
---

## Description
Macrostrat aggregates and distributes data about rock ‘‘units,” where a unit represents a body of rock or sediment that is distinct from adjacent units (genetically, lithologically, chronologically). Unit attributes include lithologies, environments of formation, minerals, measurements, chronostratigraphic time intervals, and lithostratigraphic names & hierarchies. Unit data originates from literature (e.g. Childs 1985 Correlation of stratigraphic units of North America) and government databases (e.g. {% include resource_link filename='website-usgs-geolex.yml' %}). Macrostrat also maintains a compiled global geologic map, using regional geologic maps as source data. Units intersect with geologic map data at a geographic location as a “column.” These columns are an interpretation layer generated by Macrostrat.

## Administrative home
_Who (an institution, an organization, another group) is supporting/funding the resource, especially its organizational and/or cyber infrastructure?_

University of Wisconsin Madison Department of Geoscience

## Maintainer
_Who (a person, a team, other group) is responsible for creating and maintaining the resource? Include a link to information about this provided by the resource, if available._

Shanan Peters and Daven Quinn are the primary decision-makers for Macrostrat.

## Governance
_How are decisions about this resource made? Is it supported by an organizational structure? Include a link to information about this provided by the resource, if available._

Executive decisions by the project leadership involved in seeking grant funding.

## Primary contact
_Is there a generic email or other primary contact?_

No. Emails are provided for people involved, including Shanan Peters (peters@geology.wisc.edu) and Daven Quinn (daven.quinn@wisc.edu).

## Status
_Assign a value from: active, inactive, or unclear. Notes may also be added._

Active, as of 2025-07-17.

## Sustainability
_Is there a plan for the sustainability of this resource? Does this resource seem like it will persist long term?_

Unclear. Currently active NSF grants run through May 2025 and August 2025. Administrative home at UW Madison appears secure but also intrinsically linked to Shanan Peters as an individual.

## Coverage
_What stratigraphic concepts or regions are covered by this resource?_

[Geologic map coverage](https://macrostrat.org/map) is global at the smallest map scale. In total, Macrostrat hosts 2.3 million geologic map polygons from more than 200 primary sources, all integrated into one global map.

[Lithostratigraphic names and hierarchies](https://macrostrat.org/sift) have the best coverage in North America, New Zealand, the Caribbean, the Deep Sea, and parts of South America. In total, Macrostrat has 36,000 lithostratigraphic names stored, most of which are derived from modified versions of the USGS National Geologic Map Database, Australian Lexicon, Canadian Weblex, and British Geological Survey Lexicon stratigraphic lexicons.

[Macrostrat columns](https://macrostrat.org/sift) cover approximately 15% of the global continental crust, most of which is in North America.

Macrostrat maintains digitizations of 36 timescales, both [global and regional](https://macrostrat.org/api/defs/timescales?all).

## Known gaps in coverage
_Are there any known (anecdotally or otherwise) gaps?_

Macrostrat’s geologic map has significant geographic gaps for larger map scales in eastern Asia (Japan, Laos, Cambodia, Malaysia, Philippines, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, southern India, eastern China, eastern Mongolia, etc.) as well as southern South America (anything south of Santiago in Chile and Argentina).

Macrostrat lacks coverage for lithostratigraphic names and hierarchies, as well as columns, on a global scale.

## How does content get added to the resource?
_Are there processes or norms for how data or other content are added to this resource?_

Data are added by the Macrostrat team, as capacity allows and priorities direct. Data come from a variety of authoritative sources, including geological maps produced by public agencies, literature, and government databases. For column data, Macrostrat relies on collaboration with regional experts. Data are pulled from the literature using a separate tool maintained by the same team–xDD (formerly GeoDeepDive).

## Contributor model?
_Who can contribute to or review contributions to content in this resource?_

Unclear. Potentially only individuals involved in the Macrostrat team.

## Citability
_Would you expect users to cite data from this resource? If so, is it clear how? Does this resource have a publication about itself?_

Unclear, as data may not be copyrightable. According to Macrostrat, “All data are provided under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license (CC-BY-4.0).” Macrostrat suggests citing it as well as the original references for data it is presenting. 

Users are also directed to cite the following contextual publication: Peters, S. E., Husson, J. M., & Czaplewski, J. (2018). Macrostrat: A platform for geological data integration and deep-time earth crust research. Geochemistry, Geophysics, Geosystems, 19, 1393–1409. https://doi.org/10.1029/2018GC007467 

## Authority source
_Is this entity used as an authoritative source of stratigraphic information for some or all of the groups covered? Assign a value from: yes, no, or uncertain. Descriptive notes are also encouraged._

No. Macrostrat is primarily a data aggregator. It does add an interpretation layer (the intersection of geologic map and lithostratigraphic units), but this original information is used to facilitate research rather than as an authoritative reference. 


{% include resource_list topics='macrostrat' %}
